
1. Nippon Ganka Gakkai Zasshi. 2014 Nov;118(11):943-52.

[Impact of anti-VEGF therapy on the cellular microenvironment in retinal
angiogenesis].

[Article in Japanese]

Nakao S.

Various large-scale studies show the efficacy of anti-vascular endothelial growth
factor (VEGF) therapy in treatment of retinal diseases. Based on the evidence, it
is expected that this therapeutic strategy will be used widely for various
retinal vascular diseases including diabetic retinopathy and retinal vein
occlusion. Leukocyte infiltration is an important step that occurs during
angiogenesis in inflammatory diseases. Various studies report that infiltrated
leukocytes are a prerequisite for retinal angiogenesis, including diabetic
retinopathy. Furthermore, the fibrovascular membrane (FVM) microenvironment
consists of stromal components (extracellular matrix, myofibroblasts and
leukocytes) supported by angiogenesis (endothelial cells and pericytes). The
activity of proliferative diabetic retinopathy (PDR) is thought to be determined 
by the angiogenesis-assisted FVM microenvironment status. Recently, we
investigated whether intravitreal anti-VEGF therapy modulates leukocyte
infiltration in retinal angiogenesis using the surgically obtained FVM in pars
plana vitrectomy with or without pretreatment with bevacizumab. The effect of
anti-VEGF therapy on leukocyte infiltration was also examined with a mouse model 
of oxygen-induced retinopathy. Moreover, the impact of anti-VEGF therapy on
endothelial cells, pericytes and myofibroblasts was also examined using the FVM. 
We could observe that anti-VEGF therapy blocked leukocyte infiltration as well as
re-entry from the retina. The therapy also could induce the contraction of blood 
vessels, increasing the pericyte ratio and transforming growth factor-β
expression in the FVM. Our data indicate anti-VEGF therapy could attain
anti-inflammation, vessel contraction and vessel maturation, resulting in the
resolution of retinal edema as well as the prevention of intraoperative
hemorrhage.

PMID: 25543385  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


2. Prog Retin Eye Res. 2015 Mar;45:111-31. doi: 10.1016/j.preteyeres.2014.12.001.
Epub 2014 Dec 18.

The unfolded protein response in retinal vascular diseases: implications and
therapeutic potential beyond protein folding.

Zhang SX(1), Ma JH(2), Bhatta M(3), Fliesler SJ(4), Wang JJ(5).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, University at Buffalo, The State University of
New York, Buffalo, NY, USA; Department of Biochemistry, University at Buffalo,
The State University of New York, Buffalo, NY, USA; SUNY Eye Institute, Buffalo, 
NY, USA. Electronic address: xzhang38@buffalo.edu. (2)Department of
Ophthalmology, University at Buffalo, The State University of New York, Buffalo, 
NY, USA; Department of Biochemistry, University at Buffalo, The State University 
of New York, Buffalo, NY, USA; SUNY Eye Institute, Buffalo, NY, USA; State Key
Laboratory of Ophthalmology, Zhongshan Ophthalmic Center, Sun Yat-sen University,
Guangzhou, China. (3)Department of Ophthalmology, University at Buffalo, The
State University of New York, Buffalo, NY, USA; Department of Biochemistry,
University at Buffalo, The State University of New York, Buffalo, NY, USA; SUNY
Eye Institute, Buffalo, NY, USA. (4)Department of Ophthalmology, University at
Buffalo, The State University of New York, Buffalo, NY, USA; Department of
Biochemistry, University at Buffalo, The State University of New York, Buffalo,
NY, USA; SUNY Eye Institute, Buffalo, NY, USA; Research Service, Veterans
Administration Western New York Healthcare System, Buffalo, NY, USA.
(5)Department of Ophthalmology, University at Buffalo, The State University of
New York, Buffalo, NY, USA; Department of Biochemistry, University at Buffalo,
The State University of New York, Buffalo, NY, USA.

Angiogenesis is a complex, step-wise process of new vessel formation that is
involved in both normal embryonic development as well as postnatal pathological
processes, such as cancer, cardiovascular disease, and diabetes. Aberrant blood
vessel growth, also known as neovascularization, in the retina and the choroid is
a major cause of vision loss in severe eye diseases, such as diabetic
retinopathy, age-related macular degeneration, retinopathy of prematurity, and
central and branch retinal vein occlusion. Yet, retinal neovascularization is
causally and dynamically associated with vasodegeneration, ischemia, and vascular
remodeling in retinal tissues. Understanding the mechanisms of retinal
neovascularization is an urgent unmet need for developing new treatments for
these devastating diseases. Accumulating evidence suggests a vital role for the
unfolded protein response (UPR) in regulation of angiogenesis, in part through
coordinating the secretion of pro-angiogenic growth factors, such as VEGF, and
modulating endothelial cell survival and activity. Herein, we summarize current
research in the context of endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress and UPR signaling in
retinal angiogenesis and vascular remodeling, highlighting potential implications
of targeting these stress response pathways in the prevention and treatment of
retinal vascular diseases that result in visual deficits and blindness.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

PMCID: PMC4339403 [Available on 2016-03-01]
PMID: 25529848  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


3. J Ocul Pharmacol Ther. 2014 Dec;30(10):854-8. doi: 10.1089/jop.2014.0082.

Comparison of the release profile and pharmacokinetics of intact and fragmented
dexamethasone intravitreal implants in rabbit eyes.

Bhagat R(1), Zhang J, Farooq S, Li XY.

Author information: 
(1)1 Allergan, Inc. , Irvine, California.

PURPOSE: Dexamethasone intravitreal implant (DEX implant, Ozurdex(®); Allergan,
Inc.) is used to treat noninfectious posterior uveitis and macular edema
associated with retinal vein occlusion and diabetic retinopathy. Two recently
published reports of DEX implant fragmentation shortly after injection have
raised concerns about the potential for faster implant dissolution and elevated
ocular dexamethasone concentrations. This study compared the in vivo release
profile and pharmacokinetic behavior of intact and fragmented DEX implants.
METHODS: DEX implant was surgically implanted as a single unit or fragmented into
3 pieces in the posterior segment of opposing eyes of 36 New Zealand white
rabbits. The release of dexamethasone over time from 1-piece and 3-piece
fragmented implants dissolved in solution in vitro was compared with that from
the 1-piece and 3-piece fragmented implants placed in the rabbit eyes. In
addition, dexamethasone concentrations in the vitreous and aqueous humors of each
eye were measured at 3 h and days 1, 7, 14, 21, and 28. High-performance liquid
chromatography and liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry were used for
assays.
RESULTS: Dexamethasone release from the 1-piece and 3-piece DEX implants in vivo 
was not different and was consistent with the in vitro release pattern. Moreover,
the concentration profile of dexamethasone in the vitreous and aqueous humors was
similar for the 1-piece and 3-piece DEX implants at each time point measured.
CONCLUSIONS: DEX implant fragmentation neither accelerated its dissolution nor
increased the dexamethasone concentration delivered at a given time. Accordingly,
DEX implant fragmentation is unlikely to have clinically significant effects in
patients.

PMCID: PMC4259187
PMID: 25411827  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


4. Zhongguo Zhong Yao Za Zhi. 2014 Jun;39(12):2322-5.

[Network pharmacology study of mechanism on xuesaitong injection against retinal 
vein occlusion].

[Article in Chinese]

Wang LL, Zhao XP, Zhao ZY, Fan XH, Li Z.

Retinal vein occlusion (RVO) is a common clinical disease causing vision loss.
Risk factors such as diabetes, atherosclerosis are closely associated with RVO.
Xuesaitong injection is used extensively in clinical treatment of RVO, however
the mechanism is still unclear. In this study, we investigated the protective
effect of Xuesaitong injection on RVO rat model. Using a compound-target network 
of Xuesaitong on anti-RVO constructed by literature mining, we aim to elucidate
the multi-compound, multi-target effect of Xuesaitong injection. Fifteen
potential targets of Xuesaitong injection associated with inflammation,
angiogenesis, apoptosis, and coagulation were identified in this study. VEGF,
IL-1beta and IL-6, three important targets in the compound-target network were
further experimentally validated. This study provided experimental evidence for
Xuesaitong injection being effective in treating RVO and a network view on its
anti-RVO mode of action through a multi-compound and multiple-target mechanism.

PMID: 25244768  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


5. Graefes Arch Clin Exp Ophthalmol. 2014 Oct;252(10):1593-8. doi:
10.1007/s00417-014-2719-y. Epub 2014 Jul 22.

Comparison of the efficacy of aflibercept, ranibizumab, and bevacizumab in an
RPE/choroid organ culture.

Klettner A(1), Recber M, Roider J.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Kiel University Medical Center, Arnold-Heller-Str
3, Kiel, 24105, Germany, aklettner@auge.uni-kiel.de.

PURPOSE: Anti-VEGF treatment is the therapy of choice in age-related macular
degeneration and is also applied in diabetic macular edema or retinal vein
occlusion. Recently, aflibercept has been approved for therapeutic use. In this
study, we investigate the efficacy of aflibercept in comparison with the
VEGF-antagonists ranibizumab and bevacizumab in RPE/choroid organ cultures.
METHODS: RPE/choroid organ cultures were prepared from freshly slaughtered pigs' 
eyes. Organ cultures were treated with 125 μg/ml aflibercept, ranibizumab, or
bevacizumab, and the VEGF content of the supernatant was evaluated over the
course of 7 days. Additionally, the minimal concentration of VEGF inhibition was 
evaluated in organ cultures, measured after 6 h of application.
RESULTS: Aflibercept was able to completely inhibit VEGF detection for 6 h at a
minimal concentration of 0.031 μg/ml, in contrast to bevacizumab (3.9 μg/ml) and 
ranibizumab (0.244 μg/ml). A statistically significant VEGF inhibition compared
to control could be found for aflibercept and ranibizumab down to and including
0.031 μg/ml, while bevacizumab was significantly reduced compared to control down
to a concentration of 0.244 μg/ml and again at 0.061 μg/ml. Inhibition of VEGF
after a single aflibercept application of 125 μg/ml could be found over the
course of 7 days, with some VEGF detectable at the 7th day. In contrast, VEGF was
detectable after 72 h of ranibizumab treatment and some VEGF could already be
found 12 h after bevacizumab treatment.
CONCLUSIONS: In conclusion, aflibercept displays a prolonged VEGF inhibition,
confirming its effectiveness but also raising concerns about possible side
effects of long-term usage.

PMID: 25047874  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


6. Br J Ophthalmol. 2014 Oct;98(10):1448-52. doi: 10.1136/bjophthalmol-2014-305105. 
Epub 2014 Jul 17.

Effects of aflibercept on primary RPE cells: toxicity, wound healing, uptake and 
phagocytosis.

Klettner A(1), Tahmaz N(1), Dithmer M(1), Richert E(1), Roider J(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, University of Kiel, University Medical Center,
Kiel, Germany.

BACKGROUND/AIM: Anti-VEGF treatment is the therapy of choice in age-related
macular degeneration, and is also applied in diabetic macular oedema or retinal
vein occlusion. Recently, the fusion protein, aflibercept, has been approved for 
therapeutic use. In this study, we investigate the effects of aflibercept on
primary RPE cells.
METHODS: Primary RPE cells were prepared from freshly slaughtered pigs' eyes. The
impact of aflibercept on cell viability was investigated with MTT and trypan blue
exclusion assay. The influence of aflibercept on wound healing was assessed with 
a scratch assay. Intracellular uptake of aflibercept was investigated in
immunohistochemistry and its influence on phagocytosis with a phagocytosis assay 
using opsonised latex beads.
RESULTS: Aflibercept displays no cytotoxicity on RPE cells but impairs its wound 
healing ability. It is taken up into RPE cells and can be intracellularly
detected for at least 7 days. Intracellular aflibercept impairs the phagocytic
capacity of RPE cells.
CONCLUSIONS: Aflibercept interferes with the physiology of RPE cells, as it is
taken up into RPE cells, which is accompanied by a reduction of the phagocytic
ability. Additionally, it impairs the wound healing capacity of RPE cells. These 
effects on the physiology of RPE cells may indicate possible side effects.

Published by the BMJ Publishing Group Limited. For permission to use (where not
already granted under a licence) please go to
http://group.bmj.com/group/rights-licensing/permissions.

PMID: 25034050  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


7. Am J Pathol. 2014 Sep;184(9):2573-85. doi: 10.1016/j.ajpath.2014.05.018. Epub
2014 Jul 10.

Alterations of retinal vasculature in cystathionine-β-synthase heterozygous mice:
a model of mild to moderate hyperhomocysteinemia.

Tawfik A(1), Markand S(1), Al-Shabrawey M(2), Mayo JN(3), Reynolds J(3), Bearden 
SE(3), Ganapathy V(4), Smith SB(5).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Cellular Biology and Anatomy, Medical College of Georgia,
Georgia Regents University, Augusta, Georgia; James and Jean Culver Vision
Discovery Institute, Georgia Regents University, Augusta, Georgia. (2)James and
Jean Culver Vision Discovery Institute, Georgia Regents University, Augusta,
Georgia; Department of Oral Biology and Anatomy, Medical College of Georgia,
Georgia Regents University, Augusta, Georgia; Department of Ophthalmology,
Medical College of Georgia, Georgia Regents University, Augusta, Georgia.
(3)Department of Biological Sciences, Idaho State University, Pocatello, Idaho.
(4)James and Jean Culver Vision Discovery Institute, Georgia Regents University, 
Augusta, Georgia; Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, Medical
College of Georgia, Georgia Regents University, Augusta, Georgia. (5)Department
of Cellular Biology and Anatomy, Medical College of Georgia, Georgia Regents
University, Augusta, Georgia; James and Jean Culver Vision Discovery Institute,
Georgia Regents University, Augusta, Georgia; Department of Ophthalmology,
Medical College of Georgia, Georgia Regents University, Augusta, Georgia.
Electronic address: sbsmith@gru.edu.

Mild to moderate hyperhomocysteinemia is prevalent in humans and is implicated in
neurovascular diseases, including recently in certain retinal diseases. Herein,
we used hyperhomocysteinemic mice deficient in the Cbs gene encoding
cystathionine-β-synthase (Cbs(+/-)) to evaluate retinal vascular integrity. The
Cbs(+/+) (wild type) and Cbs(+/-) (heterozygous) mice (aged 16 to 52 weeks) were 
subjected to fluorescein angiography and optical coherence tomography to assess
vasculature in vivo. Retinas harvested for cryosectioning or flat mount
preparations were subjected to immunofluorescence microscopy to detect blood
vessels (isolectin-B4), angiogenesis [anti-vascular endothelial growth factor
(VEGF) and anti-CD105], gliosis [anti-glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP)],
pericytes (anti-neural/glial antigen 2), blood-retinal barrier [anti-zonula
occludens protein 1 (ZO-1) and anti-occludin], and hypoxia [anti-pimonidazole
hydrochloride (Hypoxyprobe-1)]. Levels of VEGF, GFAP, ZO-1, and occludin were
determined by immunoblotting. Results of these analyses showed a mild vascular
phenotype in young mice, which progressed with age. Fluorescein angiography
revealed progressive neovascularization and vascular leakage in Cbs(+/-) mice;
optical coherence tomography confirmed new vessels in the vitreous by 1 year.
Immunofluorescence microscopy demonstrated vascular patterns consistent with
ischemia, including a capillary-free zone centrally and new vessels with
capillary tufts midperipherally in older mice. This was associated with increased
VEGF, CD105, and GFAP and decreased ZO-1/occludin levels in the Cbs(+/-) retinas.
Retinal vein occlusion was observed in some Cbs(+/-) mouse retinas. We conclude
that mild to moderate elevation of homocysteine in Cbs(+/-) mice is accompanied
by progressive alterations in retinal vasculature characterized by ischemia,
neovascularization, incompetent blood-retinal barrier, and vascular occlusion.

Copyright © 2014 American Society for Investigative Pathology. Published by
Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

PMCID: PMC4188277
PMID: 25016930  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


8. Invest Ophthalmol Vis Sci. 2014 Apr 28;55(4):2777-87. doi: 10.1167/iovs.13-13372.

Loss of inner retinal neurons after retinal ischemia in rats.

Schmid H(1), Renner M, Dick HB, Joachim SC.

Author information: 
(1)Experimental Eye Research Institute, Ruhr University Eye Hospital, Bochum,
Germany.

PURPOSE: Ischemia is a risk factor for eye diseases like ocular vein occlusion or
glaucoma. To investigate effects of ischemia-reperfusion (I/R) a lot of different
animal models are used, studying one or two different cell types, which creates
heterogeneity of data. The aim of this study was to investigate the function and 
morphology of the whole retina and different retinal cell types in an I/R model.
METHODS: I/R was induced by elevating the intraocular pressure in the right eyes 
of rats. Twenty-one days after ischemia, electroretinogram measurements were
performed. Changes in layer thickness were investigated. Changes of RGC,
amacrine-, rod bipolar-, and glia cells as well as presence of apoptosis were
analyzed immunohistologically.
RESULTS: A-wave- and b-wave amplitudes were decreased; histology showed a
reduction of RGC- and inner plexiform layer thickness and a 29% loss of RGCs
occurred in ischemic eyes (P = 0.016). An increase of apoptotic cells was
detected in the GCL and INL of ischemic retinas (P < 0.05). Also, a loss of
cholinergic amacrine cells (control: 11 ± 1 cells/mm, I/R: 4 ± 1 cells/mm, P <
0.001), but no change in rod bipolar cell numbers was noted.
CONCLUSIONS: Our study allowed a comparison of the effects of I/R for different
retinal cell types. Cells in the outer retina seemed to be more resistant to
ischemic damage compared with cells of the inner retina. We hypothesize that a
degenerative process, like a secondary wave of apoptosis, occurs 21 days after
I/R, causing progressive damage in the retina.

PMID: 24699380  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


9. Drugs Today (Barc). 2014 Mar;50(3):239-49. doi: 10.1358/dot.2014.50.3.2103755.

An update on intravitreal implants in use for eye disorders.

Lambiase A(1), Abdolrahimzadeh S(2), Recupero SM(3).

Author information: 
(1)Organi di Senso Department, Faculty of Medicine and Psychology, NESMOS
Department, Ophthalmology Unit, University of Rome "Sapienza", Rome, Italy.
(2)Azienda Policlinico Umberto I, DAI Testa/Collo, Faculty of Medicine and
Psychology, NESMOS Department, Ophthalmology Unit, University of Rome "Sapienza",
Rome, Italy. (3)Sant'Andrea Hospital, Faculty of Medicine and Psychology, NESMOS 
Department, Ophthalmology Unit, University of Rome "Sapienza", Rome, Italy.
santi.recupero@uniroma1.it.

Advanced biotechnological techniques and new polymers have led to the development
of many innovative intravitreal drug delivery systems. Some designs are still in 
an experimental phase while others have gained widespread acceptance and are
commercially available. Since steroids are a mainstay of therapy for uveitis and 
macular edema, new intravitreal implants have been developed to provide
continuous release of corticosteroids over prolonged spans of time with reduced
systemic adverse effects. Today, three long-acting corticosteroid implants are
commercially available: the fluocinolone acetonide implants Retisert® and
Iluvien® and the dexamethasone drug delivery system Ozurdex®. They offer an
alternative route in the management of macular edema due to uveitis, retinal vein
occlusion, diabetes and pseudophakia. Their advantage over treatment with steroid
injections and the anti-vascular endothelial growth factor ranibizumab is the
long-term control of inflammation and macular edema with a reduced frequency of
administration. Their potential side effects are cataract and glaucoma,
therefore, careful patient selection and monitoring is essential. Further studies
are warranted to define the relative efficacy and indications for each treatment 
option. The development of new devices is a future challenge in the strive to
improve drug delivery systems.

Copyright 2014 Prous Science, S.A.U. or its licensors. All rights reserved.

PMID: 24696869  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


10. J Cell Physiol. 2014 Aug;229(8):974-83. doi: 10.1002/jcp.24575.

Interleukin-18 has antipermeablity and antiangiogenic activities in the eye:
reciprocal suppression with VEGF.

Shen J(1), Choy DF, Yoshida T, Iwase T, Hafiz G, Xie B, Hackett SF, Arron JR,
Campochiaro PA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine,
Baltimore, Maryland; Department of Neuroscience, Johns Hopkins University School 
of Medicine, Baltimore, Maryland.

Interleukin-18 (IL-18) is increased along with IL-1β by activation of the
inflammasome and has been implicated in inflammatory and autoimmune diseases, but
its role in the eye is uncertain. In patients with macular edema due to retinal
vein occlusion, intraocular IL-18 levels increased significantly (P < 0.001)
after treatment with ranibizumab particularly in patients with high baseline
IL-18 which correlated with good visual outcome (P < 0.05). In mice with ischemic
retinopathy, suppression of VEGF caused an increase in IL18 mRNA due to an
increase in IL-18-positive myeloid cells. VEGF significantly and specifically
inhibited IL-18 production by myeloid cells stimulated with lipopolysaccharide
(P < 0.001). Intraocular injection of IL-18 reduced VEGF-induced leakage and
neovascularization, and reversed VEGF-induced suppression of Claudin5 expression 
and Claudin 5 labeling of vascular tight junctions. Injection of IL-18 also
increased expression of Thrombospondin 1 and reduced ischemia-induced retinal
neovascularization relevant to diabetic retinopathy and subretinal
neovascularization relevant to neovascular age-related macular degeneration.
Thus, VEGF and IL-18 suppress each other's production and effects on the
vasculature suggesting that IL-18 may provide benefit in multiple
retinal/choroidal vascular diseases.

© 2014 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

PMCID: PMC4364659
PMID: 24515951  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


11. Expert Rev Clin Pharmacol. 2014 Mar;7(2):167-80. doi:
10.1586/17512433.2014.884458. Epub 2014 Feb 3.

Pharmacokinetics, pharmacodynamics and pre-clinical characteristics of ophthalmic
drugs that bind VEGF.

Stewart MW(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Mayo School of Medicine, 4500 San Pablo Rd,
Jacksonville, 32224 FL, USA.

Drugs that prevent the binding of VEGF to its trans-membrane cognate receptors
have revolutionized the treatment of the most important chorioretinal vascular
disorders: exudative age-related macular degeneration, diabetic macular edema,
and retinal vein occlusions. Pegaptanib, which binds to VEGF165 and longer
isoforms, ranibizumab and bevacizumab, which bind all VEGF-A isoforms, and
aflibercept, which binds VEGF-A, VEGF-B, and placental growth factor, all bind
VEGF165 with high affinity. The drugs have relatively long half-lives (7 to 10
days) after intravitreal depot injections and clinical durations of action that
usually exceed 4 weeks. Plasma VEGF concentrations decrease after intravitreal
injections of bevacizumab and aflibercept because their systemic half-lives are
extended by their Fc fragments. Extensive in vitro and in vivo testing shows that
the drugs prevent VEGF-mediated activation of endothelial cells while exhibiting 
little evidence of toxicity. Further anti-VEGF drug development is on-going.

PMID: 24483136  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


12. J Clin Invest. 2014 Jan;124(1):425-36. doi: 10.1172/JCI69404. Epub 2013 Dec 20.

Melanocyte-secreted fibromodulin promotes an angiogenic microenvironment.

Adini I, Ghosh K, Adini A, Chi ZL, Yoshimura T, Benny O, Connor KM, Rogers MS,
Bazinet L, Birsner AE, Bielenberg DR, D'Amato RJ.

Comment in
    J Clin Invest. 2014 Jan;124(1):76-9.

Studies have established that pigmentation can provide strong, protective effects
against certain human diseases. For example, angiogenesis-dependent diseases such
as wet age-related macular degeneration and infantile hemangioma are more common 
in light-skinned individuals of mixed European descent than in African-Americans.
Here we found that melanocytes from light-skinned humans and albino mice secrete 
high levels of fibromodulin (FMOD), which we determined to be a potent angiogenic
factor. FMOD treatment stimulated angiogenesis in numerous in vivo systems,
including laser-induced choroidal neovascularization, growth factor-induced
corneal neovascularization, wound healing, and Matrigel plug assays.
Additionally, FMOD enhanced vascular sprouting during normal retinal development.
Deletion of Fmod in albino mice resulted in a marked reduction in the amount of
neovascularization induced by retinal vein occlusion, corneal growth factor
pellets, and Matrigel plugs. Our data implicate the melanocyte-secreted factor
FMOD as a key regulator of angiogenesis and suggest an underlying mechanism for
epidemiological differences between light-skinned individuals of mixed European
descent and African-Americans. Furthermore, inhibition of FMOD in humans has
potential as a therapeutic strategy for treating angiogenesis-dependent diseases.

PMCID: PMC3871226
PMID: 24355922  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


13. Zhonghua Yan Ke Za Zhi. 2013 Sep;49(9):847-50.

[Progress in sustained-release drug delivery system for treatment of posterior
segment eye diseases].

[Article in Chinese]

Sun SM(1), Cheng LY(2).

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Ocular Pharmacology, Eye Hospital, Wenzhou Medical College,
Wenzhou 325027, China. (2)Institute of Ocular Pharmacology, Eye Hospital, Wenzhou
Medical College, Wenzhou 325027, China. Email: cheng@eyecenter.ucsd.edu.

There is an urgent requirement to find effective therapeutic procedures for the
treatment of refractory eye diseases of posterior segment such as posterior
uveitis, proliferative vitreoretinopathy, and macular edema associated with
diabetes and retinal vein occlusion. Due to systemic side effect developed from
systemic drug administration and the low efficiency of topical drug
administration, implantable drug devices for the treatment of posterior segment
diseases have been explored. In recent years, three different intraocular
implantable devices (ganciclovir, fluocinolone acetonide and dexamethasone) have 
been approved by FDA and showed exciting clinical efficacy. However, these
devices have surgical complications and the drug-related side effects. Recently, 
transscleral drug delivery to the posterior segment has been investigated.
Transscleral drug delivery has advantages of large scleral surface area, better
safety profile, easily drug administration and could evolve into an effective
route with the use of novel biomaterials and the study of drug delivery methods.

PMID: 24330936  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


14. Graefes Arch Clin Exp Ophthalmol. 2014 Feb;252(2):257-65. doi:
10.1007/s00417-013-2532-z. Epub 2013 Nov 29.

Effects of arteriolar constriction on retinal gene expression and Müller cell
responses in a rat model of branch retinal vein occlusion.

Köferl P(1), Hollborn M, Rehak J, Iandiev I, Dukic-Stefanovic S, Wiedemann P,
Kohen L, Bringmann A, Rehak M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, University of Leipzig, Leipzig, Germany.

BACKGROUND: To investigate the effect of induced arteriolar constriction (AC) on 
alterations in gene expression of factors implicated in the development of edema 
in branch retinal vein occlusion (BRVO).
METHODS: In Brown-Norway rats, BRVO was induced by laser photocoagulation of the 
veins in one half of the retina. AC of the afferent arterioles was performed
30 min later. We then determined the expression of Vegfa, Vegfb, Pedf, Kir4.1,
Aqp4, Aqp1, Il1ß, and Il6 with real-time polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) in
the neuroretina and retinal pigment epithelium (RPE) after 1, 3, and 7 days.
Immunostaining against GFAP, aquaporin (AQP)-4, and Kir4.1 was performed on days 
1 and 3.
RESULTS: BRVO resulted in transient upregulation of Vegfa in the neuroretina on
day 1. The expressions of Kir4.1, AQP4, and AQP1 were downregulated, and Il1ß and
Il6 were strongly upregulated, on days 1 and 3. The retinal distribution of GFAP 
and AQP4 proteins remained unaltered, while the Kir4.1 protein displayed
redistribution from polarized to uniform retinal distribution. AC accelerated the
restoration of downregulated Kir4.1, Aqp4, and Aqp1 in the RPE, of Kir4.1 in the 
neuroretina, and of upregulated Il6 in the neuroretina. AC did not influence the 
gliotic alterations of Müller cells and the redistribution of the Kir4.1 protein.
CONCLUSION: Constriction of the afferent artery in the BRVO region accelerated
the restoration of potassium channels and Il6. These alterations may contribute
to faster resorption of retinal edema, and may decrease the level of
inflammation.

PMID: 24292703  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


15. Hum Gene Ther Methods. 2014 Feb;25(1):83-91. doi: 10.1089/hgtb.2013.089. Epub
2013 Dec 28.

Laser photocoagulation enhances adeno-associated viral vector transduction of
mouse retina.

Lee SH(1), Colosi P, Lee H, Ohn YH, Kim SW, Kwak HW, Park TK.

Author information: 
(1)1 Department of Ophthalmology, Soonchunhyang University , College of Medicine,
Bucheon 420-767, Korea.

Laser photocoagulation is a well-established treatment modality for retinal
disease. Discrete laser burns can be placed anywhere in the retina, singly or
multiply, and the burn intensity is controllable. This study investigates the
effect of prior laser photocoagulation on the retinal transduction properties of 
intravitreally administered adeno-associated viral (AAV) vectors. C57BL/6J mice
were subjected to unilateral laser photocoagulation 48 hr before bilateral
intravitreal injection of self-complementary cytomegaloviral enhanced green
fluorescent protein (EGFP) vectors packaged in AAV type 2, 5, and 8 capsids. The 
eyes were enucleated 4 weeks after injection and examined by histochemistry and
quantitative image analysis. Laser pretreatment resulted in substantially
increased localized transduction around the burn site for all AAV capsid types.
Without laser pretreatment, the vectors transduced only ganglion cells (AAV2) or 
sporadic cells around the optic nerve head (AAV5 and AAV8). Laser pretreatment
increased AAV2 vector expression throughout the entire retina and focally at the 
burn site. Transduced cells at the burn site included retinal pigment epithelium 
(RPE), photoreceptors, Müller cells, inner nuclear layer cells, and retinal
ganglion cells. The AAV5 vector showed increased RPE transduction at the burn
site only. The AAV8 vector showed augmented expression in RPE, photoreceptors,
and Müller cells around the burn site. Migrating RPE cells, present in the neural
retina near the burn site, were also transduced by all three capsid types as
evidenced by colocalization of EGFP and cytokeratin. Laser photocoagulation can
be used to precisely direct AAV vector transduction to discrete locations in the 
retina. A combination of laser and AAV-mediated gene expression may allow the
development of improved therapies for diabetic retinopathy, branch and central
vein occlusion, and age-related macular degeneration.

PMCID: PMC3904656
PMID: 24191872  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


16. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2013 Sep 3;110(36):E3425-34. doi:
10.1073/pnas.1217091110. Epub 2013 Aug 19.

Hypoxic retinal Muller cells promote vascular permeability by HIF-1-dependent
up-regulation of angiopoietin-like 4.

Xin X(1), Rodrigues M, Umapathi M, Kashiwabuchi F, Ma T, Babapoor-Farrokhran S,
Wang S, Hu J, Bhutto I, Welsbie DS, Duh EJ, Handa JT, Eberhart CG, Lutty G,
Semenza GL, Montaner S, Sodhi A.

Author information: 
(1)Wilmer Eye Institute, Johns Hopkins School of Medicine, Baltimore, MD 21287,
USA.

Vision loss from ischemic retinopathies commonly results from the accumulation of
fluid in the inner retina [macular edema (ME)]. Although the precise events that 
lead to the development of ME remain under debate, growing evidence supports a
role for an ischemia-induced hyperpermeability state regulated, in part, by VEGF.
Monthly treatment with anti-VEGF therapies is effective for the treatment of ME
but results in a major improvement in vision in a minority of patients,
underscoring the need to identify additional therapeutic targets. Using the
oxygen-induced retinopathy mouse model for ischemic retinopathy, we provide
evidence showing that hypoxic Müller cells promote vascular permeability by
stabilizing hypoxia-inducible factor-1α (HIF-1α) and secreting angiogenic
cytokines. Blocking HIF-1α translation with digoxin inhibits the promotion of
endothelial cell permeability in vitro and retinal edema in vivo. Interestingly, 
Müller cells require HIF--but not VEGF--to promote vascular permeability,
suggesting that other HIF-dependent factors may contribute to the development of 
ME. Using gene expression analysis, we identify angiopoietin-like 4 (ANGPTL4) as 
a cytokine up-regulated by HIF-1 in hypoxic Müller cells in vitro and the
ischemic inner retina in vivo. ANGPTL4 is critical and sufficient to promote
vessel permeability by hypoxic Müller cells. Immunohistochemical analysis of
retinal tissue from patients with diabetic eye disease shows that HIF-1α and
ANGPTL4 localize to ischemic Müller cells. Our results suggest that ANGPTL4 may
play an important role in promoting vessel permeability in ischemic retinopathies
and could be an important target for the treatment of ME.

PMCID: PMC3767527
PMID: 23959876  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


17. Prog Retin Eye Res. 2013 Sep;36:260-80. doi: 10.1016/j.preteyeres.2013.06.002.
Epub 2013 Jul 3.

Arginase in retinopathy.

Narayanan SP(1), Rojas M, Suwanpradid J, Toque HA, Caldwell RW, Caldwell RB.

Author information: 
(1)Vision Discovery Institute, Georgia Regents University, 1459 Laney Walker
Boulevard, Augusta 30912, USA. pnarayanan@gru.edu

Ischemic retinopathies, such as diabetic retinopathy (DR), retinopathy of
prematurity and retinal vein occlusion are a major cause of blindness in
developed nations worldwide. Each of these conditions is associated with early
neurovascular dysfunction. However, conventional therapies target clinically
significant macula edema or neovascularization, which occur much later.
Intra-ocular injections of anti-VEGF show promise in reducing retinal edema, but 
the effects are usually transient and the need for repeated injections increases 
the risk of intraocular infection. Laser photocoagulation can control
pathological neovascularization, but may impair vision and in some patients the
retinopathy continues to progress. Moreover, neither treatment targets early
stage disease or promotes repair. This review examines the potential role of the 
ureahydrolase enzyme arginase as a therapeutic target for the treatment of
ischemic retinopathy. Arginase metabolizes l-arginine to form proline, polyamines
and glutamate. Excessive arginase activity reduces the l-arginine supply for
nitric oxide synthase (NOS), causing it to become uncoupled and produce
superoxide and less NO. Superoxide and NO react and form the toxic oxidant
peroxynitrite. The catabolic products of polyamine oxidation and glutamate can
induce more oxidative stress and DNA damage, both of which can cause cellular
injury. Studies indicate that neurovascular injury during retinopathy is
associated with increased arginase expression/activity, decreased NO, polyamine
oxidation, formation of superoxide and peroxynitrite and dysfunction and injury
of both vascular and neural cells. Furthermore, data indicate that the cytosolic 
isoform arginase I (AI) is involved in hyperglycemia-induced dysfunction and
injury of vascular endothelial cells whereas the mitochondrial isoform arginase
II (AII) is involved in neurovascular dysfunction and death following hyperoxia
exposure. Thus, we postulate that activation of the arginase pathway causes
neurovascular injury by uncoupling NOS and inducing polyamine oxidation and
glutamate formation, thereby reducing NO and increasing oxidative stress, all of 
which contribute to the retinopathic process.

Published by Elsevier Ltd.

PMCID: PMC3759622
PMID: 23830845  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


18. Invest Ophthalmol Vis Sci. 2013 Jul 22;54(7):4910-8. doi: 10.1167/iovs.13-11967.

Intravitreal tenecteplase (metalyse) for acute management of retinal vein
occlusions.

McAllister IL(1), Vijayasekaran S, Yu DY.

Author information: 
(1)Lions Eye Institute, Centre for Ophthalmology and Visual Science, University
of Western Australia, Perth, Australia. ianmcallister@lei.org.au.

PURPOSE: To determine the ability of an intravitreal injection of tenecteplase
(TNK) to penetrate an intraretinal venous thrombus and its effectiveness in
thrombolysis in a porcine model of branch retinal vein occlusion (BRVO).
METHODS: Six pigs (group 1) were anesthetized, and a BRVO was induced
photothrombotically in the left eye; immediately afterward,
fluorescence-conjugated TNK (100 μg) was injected into both eyes, with
enucleation at 24 hours. Retinal penetration was assessed on frozen sections by
epifluorescence microscopy. A further six pigs (group 2) were anesthetized; BRVO 
was induced in both eyes, and TNK was injected into the vitreous in the left eye.
Both eyes were harvested a week later. The area of the lasered site and an area
away from the burn were dissected and processed in epoxy resin and stained for
light or transmission electron microscopy. The percentage blockage, clot volume, 
cytostructure, and extent of thrombolysis by TNK were assessed.
RESULTS: TNK penetrated the veins in both eyes of group 1 pigs, with more intense
staining in the eyes with the occlusion. In group 2 eyes, thrombolysis was
significant in the eyes injected with TNK (P = 0.03); blockage was seen in all
six untreated eyes and one treated eye. Clot volume was significantly higher in
untreated eyes (P = 0.028). Percentage blockage varied from 8.5% to 83.9%. Damage
by TNK to the neural retina was not seen. There was no significant difference in 
cytostructure between treated and untreated eyes (P = 0.357).
CONCLUSIONS: TNK was able to penetrate the retinal veins with and without an
occlusion and effect lysis of BRVO, and did not cause damage to the retinal
tissue. Intravitreal TNK may be useful as an acute treatment for RVOs of recent
onset.

PMID: 23766477  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


19. Exp Eye Res. 2013 Aug;113:105-16. doi: 10.1016/j.exer.2013.05.018. Epub 2013 Jun 
5.

Neuroprotective effect of minocycline in a rat model of branch retinal vein
occlusion.

Sun C(1), Li XX, He XJ, Zhang Q, Tao Y.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, People's Hospital, Peking University, Beijing,
China.

Branch retinal vein occlusion (BRVO) is the second most frequent retinal vascular
disorder. Currently the first-line therapies for BRVO include anti-VEGF and
dexamethasone implant treatment, however, with direct or indirect damage on
retinal neurons, it has limited effect in improving patients visual acuity.
Therefore, novel treatments with neuroprotective effect for BRVO retina were
expected. Minocycline is a semisynthetic, broad spectrum tetracycline antibiotic 
with high penetration through the blood brain barrier. The neuroprotective
effects of minocycline have been shown in various central nervous system (CNS)
disease. Since both CNS and retina were composed of neurons and glials, it is
reasonable to expect a neuroprotective effect by minocycline for BRVO retina.
Therefore, the aim of the present study was to study whether minocycline has
neuroprotective effect in branch retinal vein occlusion (BRVO) and the possible
underlying molecular basis. We created BRVO in rats using laser photocoagulation.
The animals were then randomly divided into 4 groups to evaluate the effect of
minocycline: group A: minocycline 45 mg/kg intraperitoneal injection (i.p.),
group B: minocycline 90 mg/kg i.p., group C: normal saline i.p., group D: sham
injection. Fundus photography and fluorescein angiography (FA) were conducted.
The changes in thickness of retinal layers were measured with optical coherence
tomography (OCT) in vivo. We found that retinal edema occurred predominantly in
the inner retinal layers. Intraperitoneal administration of minocycline
significantly ameliorated retinal edema in the early stage of BRVO. We performed 
Full field Electroretinography (ffERG) to evaluate retinal function and found
that the reduction of b wave amplitude decreased in the combined maximal
response. The expressional levels of apoptosis related genes (Bax, Bcl-2) and
inflammation related genes (IL-1 β, TNF α, MCP-1 and CCR2) were measured by
real-time PCR, the results showed that minocycline treatment upregulated Bcl-2
expression and inhibits TNF α expression since early stage of BRVO. We also
performed Hematoxylin-Eosin (HE) and immunostaining for Iba 1 (a microgilal
marker), active caspase-3, Bax, Bcl-2, IL-1 β, TNF α and found that minocycline
inhibits retinal microglial activation, prevents retinal ganglion cell loss, and 
inhibits retinal caspase-3 activation. Thus, our study indicates that systemic
administration of minocycline ameliorates retinal edema and preserves retinal
function in the early stage of BRVO possibly via inhibiting microglia activation 
and protecting RGC from apoptosis.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

PMID: 23748101  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


20. Acta Ophthalmol. 2013 Dec;91(8):e603-11. doi: 10.1111/aos.12188. Epub 2013 May
29.

Correlation with OCT and histology of photocoagulation lesions in patients and
rabbits.

Koinzer S(1), Saeger M, Hesse C, Portz L, Kleemann S, Schlott K, Brinkmann R,
Roider J.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, University of Kiel, Kiel, GermanyInstitute of
Biomedical Optics, University of Lübeck, Lübeck, GermanyMedical Laser Center
Lübeck GmbH, Lübeck, Germany.

PURPOSE: To examine spectral domain optical coherence tomographic (OCT) and
histological images from comparable retinal photocoagulation lesions in rabbits, 
and to correlate these images with comparable OCT images from patients.
METHODS: 508 rabbit lesions were examined by HE-stained paraffin histology. 1019 
rabbit lesions versus 236 patient lesions were examined by OCT, all at the
time-points 1 hr, 1 week and 4 weeks after photocoagulation. We analysed 100 μm
lesions (in humans) and 133 μm lesions (in rabbits) of 200 ms exposures at powers
titrated from the histological threshold up to intense damage. Lesions were
matched according to morphological criteria.
RESULTS: Dome-shaped layer alterations, retinal infiltration by round, pigmented 
cells, outer nuclear layer interruption, and eventually full thickness retinal
coagulation are detectable in histology and OCT. Horizontal damage extensions are
found 1½ times larger in OCT. More intense irradiation was necessary to induce
comparable layer affection in rabbit OCT as in histology. Restoration of the
inner retinal layers is only shown in the OCT images. Comparable primary lesions 
caused more pronounced OCT changes in patients than in rabbits during healing.
CONCLUSIONS: Optical coherence tomographic images indicate different tissue
changes than histologic images. After photocoagulation, they show wider
horizontal damage diameters, but underestimate axial damage particularly during
healing. Conclusions on retinal restoration should not be drawn from OCT findings
alone. Retinal recovery after comparable initial lesions appears to be more
complete in rabbit than in patient OCTs.

© 2013 Acta Ophthalmologica Scandinavica Foundation. Published by John Wiley &
Sons Ltd.

PMID: 23718709  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


21. Ophthalmic Surg Lasers Imaging Retina. 2013 May-Jun;44(3):268-73. doi:
10.3928/23258160-20130503-10.

Evaluation of the ability of a photocoagulator to rupture the retinal vein and
Bruch's membrane for potential vein bypass in retinal vein occlusion.

McAllister IL(1), Vijayasekaran S, Xia W, Yu DY.

Author information: 
(1)Lions Eye Institute, Centre for Ophthalmology and Visual Science, the
University of Western Australia, Nedlands, WA 6009, Australia.
ianmcallister@lei.org.au

BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the laser power required to rupture both
the retinal vein and Bruch's membrane in a porcine model using a new laser system
for treatment of retinal vein occlusion.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: The retina was treated in areas with and without an
overlying vein. Sections through the laser sites were stained for light and
transmission electron microscopy. The percentage of the laser sites with rupture 
of the retinal vein and Bruch's membrane, the degree of tissue damage, and the
diameter of the rupture in Bruch's membrane were determined.
RESULTS: The rate of vein rupture was 75% at 3 W, and rupture of Bruch's membrane
was achieved at all powers tested. The mean diameter of the rupture in Bruch's
membrane increased with laser power.
CONCLUSION: The Integre Duo laser system (Ellex Medical Lasers, Adelaide,
Australia) is capable of rupturing the retinal vein and Bruch's membrane at lower
powers than prior laser systems.

Copyright 2013, SLACK Incorporated.

PMID: 23676229  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


22. Ann Pharmacother. 2013 Jun;47(6):819-27. doi: 10.1345/aph.1R705. Epub 2013 May
14.

Aflibercept: newly approved for the treatment of macular edema following central 
retinal vein occlusion.

Evoy KE(1), Abel SR.

Author information: 
(1)College of Pharmacy, Purdue University, Lafayette, IN, USA.

OBJECTIVE: To review the pharmacology, efficacy, and safety data available for
aflibercept and compare the drug to other therapeutic options for treatment of
macular edema following central retinal vein occlusion (CRVO) to determine its
likely role in therapy.
DATA SOURCES: A PubMed search using the terms aflibercept and VEGF trap-eye was
conducted to identify initial literature sources. No timeframe was used for
exclusion of older trials. All trials referenced were published between January
1995 and December 2012.
STUDY SELECTION AND DATA EXTRACTION: Trials pertaining to oncologic use were
excluded, as were studies conducted in animals and those written in a language
other than English. Abstracts of the remaining trials were evaluated for
determination of relevance to this review. Additional information sources were
obtained via Internet and PubMed following a review of references.
DATA SYNTHESIS: While previous Phase 1, 2, and 3 trials for other indications
(age-related macular degeneration and diabetic macular edema) have shown
intravitreal injections of aflibercept to be safe and well tolerated in many
patients, preliminary results from the ongoing COPERNICUS and GALILEO trials
proved the efficacy of this medication in treating macular edema secondary to
CRVO. Of the combined 358 patients studied in COPERNICUS and GALILEO, 56% and
60%, respectively, of the patients receiving aflibercept 2 mg monthly achieved at
least a 15-letter improvement in best-corrected visual acuity (BCVA) from
baseline over 6 months compared with just 12% and 22% in the control group (p <
0.01 for both). Additionally, in COPERNICUS and GALILEO, patients achieved a
21.3- and 14.7-letter improvement, respectively, in BCVA compared with placebo (p
< 0.01 for both).
CONCLUSIONS: In September 2012, aflibercept became the second vascular
endothelial growth factor (VEGF) inhibitor approved for treatment of macular
edema secondary to CRVO. While efficacy and safety appear similar to other
anti-VEGF treatments, the higher potency, binding affinity, and duration of
action make aflibercept an appealing new option.

PMID: 23673531  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


23. Invest Ophthalmol Vis Sci. 2013 Apr 23;54(4):2853-63. doi: 10.1167/iovs.13-11825.

Mobility experiments with microrobots for minimally invasive intraocular surgery.

Ullrich F(1), Bergeles C, Pokki J, Ergeneman O, Erni S, Chatzipirpiridis G, Pané 
S, Framme C, Nelson BJ.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Robotics and Intelligent Systems, ETH Zurich, Zurich,
Switzerland.

PURPOSE: To investigate microrobots as an assistive tool for minimally invasive
intraocular surgery and to demonstrate mobility and controllability inside the
living rabbit eye.
METHODS: A system for wireless magnetic control of untethered microrobots was
developed. Mobility and controllability of a microrobot are examined in different
media, specifically vitreous, balanced salt solution (BSS), and silicone oil.
This is demonstrated through ex vivo and in vivo animal experiments.
RESULTS: The developed electromagnetic system enables precise control of magnetic
microrobots over a workspace that covers the posterior eye segment. The system
allows for rotation and translation of the microrobot in different media
(vitreous, BSS, silicone oil) inside the eye.
CONCLUSIONS: Intravitreal introduction of untethered mobile microrobots can
enable sutureless and precise ophthalmic procedures. Ex vivo and in vivo
experiments demonstrate that microrobots can be manipulated inside the eye.
Potential applications are targeted drug delivery for maculopathies such as AMD, 
intravenous deployment of anticoagulation agents for retinal vein occlusion
(RVO), and mechanical applications, such as manipulation of epiretinal membrane
peeling (ERM). The technology has the potential to reduce the invasiveness of
ophthalmic surgery and assist in the treatment of a variety of ophthalmic
diseases.

PMID: 23518764  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


24. Invest Ophthalmol Vis Sci. 2013 Feb 1;54(2):918-31. doi: 10.1167/iovs.12-11291.

Hyperoxia causes regression of vitreous neovascularization by downregulating
VEGF/VEGFR2 pathway.

Liu H(1), Zhang W, Xu Z, Caldwell RW, Caldwell RB, Brooks SE.

Author information: 
(1)Vascular Biology Center, Georgia Health Sciences University, Augusta, USA.

PURPOSE: Neovascularization (NV) is a sight-threatening complication of retinal
ischemia in diabetes, retinal vein occlusion, and retinopathy of prematurity.
Current treatment modalities, including laser photocoagulation and repeated
intraocular injection of VEGF antagonists, are invasive and not always effective,
and may carry side effects. We studied the use of hyperoxia as an alternative
therapeutic strategy for regressing established vitreous NV in a mouse model of
oxygen-induced ischemic retinopathy.
METHODS: Hyperoxia treatment (HT, 75% oxygen) was initiated on postnatal day
(P)17 after the onset of vitreous NV. Immunohistochemistry and quantitative PCR
were used to assess retinal vascular changes in relation to apoptosis, and
expression of VEGFR2 and inflammatory molecules. Effects of intravitreal
injections of VEGF-A, VEGF-E, PlGF-1, and VEGF trap were also studied.
RESULTS: HT selectively reduced NV by 70% within 24 hours. It robustly increased 
the level of cleaved caspase-3 in the vitreous NV between 6 and 18 hours and
promoted infiltration of macrophage/microglial cells. The HT-induced apoptosis
was preceded by a significant reduction in VEGFR2 expression within the NV and an
increase in VEGFR2 within the surrounding neural tissue. Intravitreal VEGF-A and 
VEGF-E (VEGFR2 agonist) but not PlGF-1 (VEGFR1 agonist) prevented HT-induced
apoptosis and regression of NV. In contrast, VEGF trap and VEGFR2 blockers
mimicked the effect of HT. However, intravitreal VEGF trap induced increases in
inflammatory molecules while HT did not have such unwanted effect.
CONCLUSIONS: HT may be clinically useful to specifically treat proliferative NV
in ischemic retinopathy.

PMCID: PMC3564450
PMID: 23307955  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


25. Jpn J Ophthalmol. 2013 Jan;57(1):120-5. doi: 10.1007/s10384-012-0213-9. Epub 2012
Nov 15.

Possible implications of acid-sensing ion channels in ischemia-induced retinal
injury in rats.

Miyake T(1), Nishiwaki A, Yasukawa T, Ugawa S, Shimada S, Ogura Y.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Nagoya City University Graduate School of Medical
Sciences, 1 Kawasumi, Mizuho-cho, Mizuho-ku, Nagoya, Aichi 467-8601, Japan.

BACKGROUND: Retinal ischemia in eyes with diabetic retinopathy and retinal vein
occlusion leads to local tissue acidosis. Acid-sensing ion channels (ASICs) are
expressed in photoreceptors and other neurons in the retina, and may play a role 
in acid-induced cell injury. The purpose of this study was to investigate the
neuroprotective effects of amiloride, an ASIC blocker, on induced retinal
ischemia in rats.
METHODS: Transient retinal ischemia was induced in male Long-Evans rats by the
temporary ligation of the optic nerve. Just before the induction of ischemia, the
experimental eyes underwent intravitreal injection of amiloride. On day 7, the
retinal damage in eyes that underwent amiloride treatment (and in those that did 
not undergo the treatment) was evaluated by histology and electroretinogram
(ERG).
RESULTS: Transient retinal ischemia caused retinal degeneration with thinning of 
the inner layer of the retina. The blockage of ASICs with amiloride significantly
prevented retinal degeneration. ERG demonstrated that the reduction in a- and
b-wave amplitudes induced by the transient retinal ischemia was significantly
prevented by the application of amiloride.
CONCLUSIONS: The present study suggests that ASICs might, at least in part, play 
a pathophysiological role in ischemia-induced neurodegeneration. Blockage of
ASICs may have a potential neuroprotective effect in ocular ischemic diseases.

PMID: 23152156  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


26. Clin Hemorheol Microcirc. 2013;53(1-2):11-21. doi: 10.3233/CH-2012-1572.

Molecular basis of erythrocyte adhesion to endothelial cells in diseases.

Wautier JL(1), Wautier MP.

Author information: 
(1)Université Denis Diderot, Paris, France. jlwautier@ints.fr

Red blood cell (RBC) adhesion to endothelium can be studied in static and flow
conditions. Increased RBC adhesion was first described in sickle cell disease.
Several molecules were shown to be involved in this phenomenon: VCAM-1, α4β1,
Lu/BCAM, ICAM-4. In malaria, Plasmodium falciparum erythrocyte membrane protein1 
binds to ICAM-1, PECAM-1 and facilitates the parasite dissemination. In diabetes 
mellitus augmented RBC adhesion is correlated to the severity of vascular
complications. Glycated RBC band3 reacts with the endothelial Receptor for
Advanced Glycation End products (RAGE). RAGE engagement induced endothelial cell 
dysfunction. In patients with Polycythemia Vera (PV), the most frequent
myeloproliferative disorder, constitutive phosphorylation of RBC Lu/BCAM is
responsible for an increased adhesion to endothelial cell laminin. Retinal vein
occlusion (RVO) is a common cause of permanent visual loss. Spontaneous growth of
erythroid precursors was observed in more than 25% of patients. RBC adhesion was 
enhanced and correlated to phosphatidyl serine (PS) expression on RBC. Anti-PS
receptor blocked RVO RBC adhesion indicating that the counterpart of RBC PS is PS
endothelial cell receptor. Erythrocyte adhesion is mediated by different molecule
abnormalities in different diseases but is associated to a higher risk of
thrombosis and vascular complications.

PMID: 22941965  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]

